Update README.md (#1)
Hardblock-IMSE/EIPX-Smart-NFT: README.md

When the SmartNFT is created or when the ownership is transferred, the token state is `waitingForOwner`. Assuming that the asset is an electronic physical asset, it saves in its memory the owner address and sets its operating mode to `waitingForOwner`. The owner generates a pair of keys using the elliptic curve secp256k1 and the primitive element P used on this curve: a secret key SK<sub>O_A</sub> and a Public Key PK<sub>O_A</sub>, so that PK<sub>O_A</sub> = SK<sub>O_A</sub>*P. To generate the shared key between the owner and the asset, K<sub>O</sub>, the public key of the asset, PK<sub>A</sub>, is employed as follows:

K<sub>O</sub>=PK<sub>A</sub>*SK<sub>O_A</sub>

> Using the function `startOwnerEngagement`, the owner saves PK<sub>O_A</sub> as the attribute `dataEngagement` and the hash of K<sub>O</sub> as the attribute `hashK_OA` in the SmartNFT. The owner sends PK<sub>O_A</sub> signed to the asset. The asset checks the signature of the owner and, if signature is correct, the asset uses PKO_A to calculate:

Author: ```suggestion
Using the function `startOwnerEngagement`, the owner saves PK<sub>O_A</sub> as the attribute `dataEngagement` and the hash of K<sub>O</sub> as the attribute `hashK_OA` in the SmartNFT. The owner sends PK<sub>O_A</sub> signed to the asset. The asset checks the signature of the owner and, if signature is correct, the asset uses PK<sub>O_A</sub> to calculate:
```

> Using the function `startOwnerEngagement`, the owner saves PK<sub>O_A</sub> as the attribute `dataEngagement` and the hash of K<sub>O</sub> as the attribute `hashK_OA` in the SmartNFT. The owner sends PK<sub>O_A</sub> signed to the asset. The asset checks the signature and PK<sub>O_A</sub> on the attribute `dataEngagement` of its token to verify the identity of the owner and calculates:

Author: ```suggestion
Using the function `startOwnerEngagement`, the owner saves PK<sub>O_A</sub> as the attribute `dataEngagement` and the hash of K<sub>O</sub> as the attribute `hashK_OA` in the SmartNFT. The owner sends PK<sub>O_A</sub> signed to the asset. The asset checks the signature of the owner and, if signature is correct, the asset uses PKO_A to calculate:
```

 ![Figure 4: Steps in a successful owner and asset mutual authentication process](https://github.com/Hardblock-IMSE/EIPX-Smart-NFT/blob/main/blob/assets/eip-4519/images/Figure4.png)  

If the asset consults Ethereum and the state of its SmartNFT is `waitingForUser`, the asset (assuming it is an electronic physical asset) saves in its memory the user address and sets its operating mode to `waitingForUser`. Then, a mutual authentication process is carried out with the user, as already done with the owner. The user sends the transaction associated with the function `startUserEngagement`. As in `startOwnerEngagement`, this function saves the public key generated by the user, PK<sub>U_A</sub>, as the attribute `dataEngagement` and the hash of K<sub>U</sub>=PK<sub>A</sub>*SK<sub>U_A</sub> as the attribute `hashK_UA` in the SmartNFT.

> The user sends PKU_A signed to the asset. The latter checks the signature of the user and, if signature is correct, the asset uses PKU_A to calculate:

Author: ```suggestion
The user sends PKU_A signed to the asset. The latter checks the signature of the user and, if signature is correct, the asset uses PK<sub>U_A</sub> to calculate:
```

> The user sends PK<sub>U_A</sub> signed to the asset. The latter checks the signature and PK<sub>U_A</sub> on the attribute `dataEngagement` of its token. If the user is verified, the asset calculates:

Author: ```suggestion
The user sends PKU_A signed to the asset. The latter checks the signature of the user and, if signature is correct, the asset uses PKU_A to calculate:
```

## Abstract

> This EIP proposes a standard interface for non-fungible tokens that represent physical assets, such as Internet of Things (IoT) devices. A SmartNFT is tied to a physical asset that can check if the tie is authentic or not. The SmartNFT can include an Ethereum address of the physical asset and, consequently, the physical asset can sign messages or transactions. The physical asset can operate with an operating mode that is defined by its SmartNFT with an attribute named state. The token state can define if the token owner or the token user can use the asset or not. A cryptographically secure mutual authentication process can be carried out between the physical asset and its owner or its user. SmartNFTs extend [ERC-721](./eip-721.md) non-fungible tokens, which only allow representing assets by a unique identifier, but not by an Ethereum address. Moreover, SmartNFTs extend ERC-721 NFTs to include users in addition to owners.

Author: poner en `resaltado` los atributos principales. Mirar que son atributos y que no, por todo el documento.

 
## Motivation
This SmartNFT was developed because the ERC-721 NFT does not include the users of an asset (only include the owners) and does not include the Ethereum address of the asset. Smart assets (for example, IoT devices) are increasing nowadays. If smart assets are tied to SmartNFTs then they can be managed in a secure and traceable way. The reason is that SmartNFTs, unlike ERC-721 NFTs, allow establishing secure communication channels between the physical asset and its owner and its user. In this way, assets, owners and users can be assured of exchanging information with trusted parties.

**Secure Physical Asset Tied  to a SmartNFT**

> Current non-fungible tokens are associated with passive assets, either virtual or physical things, but they do not include any standardized mechanism to tie the non-fungible token to the asset. Tying physical assets to NFTs is interesting because the asset can know anytime its owner, user, operating mode, and how to establish secure communication channels with its owner and user. The assets, owners and users are identified by their Ethereum addresses and the Ethereum address of the asset can be obtained from a unique physical property of the physical asset (for example, using a physically unclonable function). The asset can be an active part in any transfer of ownership and use. In addition, the asset is smart, for example to not obey orders from a non-authorized user, or to be inoperative if a succesful authentication with the user or the owner has not been fullfilled.

Author: ```suggestion
Current non-fungible tokens are associated with passive assets, either virtual or physical things, but they do not include any standardized mechanism to tie the non-fungible token to the asset. Tying physical assets to NFTs is interesting because the asset can know anytime its owner, user, operating mode, and how to establish secure communication channels with its owner and user. The assets, owners and users are identified by their Ethereum addresses and the Ethereum address of the asset can be obtained from a unique physical property of the physical asset (for example, using a physical unclonable function). The asset can be an active part in any transfer of ownership and use. In addition, the asset is smart, for example to not obey orders from a non-authorized user, or to be inoperative if a succesful authentication with the user or the owner has not been fullfilled.
```

![Figure 1 : Flow chart of the token states with user defined (and asset undefined)](https://github.com/Hardblock-IMSE/EIPX-Smart-NFT/blob/main/blob/assets/eip-4519/images/Figure1.png)  
  
  
In the case of defining the attribute asset but not the attribute user, two states define if the token is waiting for authentication with the owner or if the authentication has finished successfully. `Figure 2` shows these states in a flow chart. When a token is created or transferred to a new owner, then the token changes its state to `waitingForOwner`. In this state, the token is waiting for the mutual authentication between the asset and the owner. Once authentication is finished successfully, the token changes its state to `engagedWithOwner`.

> ![Figure 2 : Flow chart of the token states with asset defined (and user undefined)](https://github.com/Hardblock-IMSE/EIPX-Smart-NFT/blob/main/blob/assets/eip-4519/images/Figure2.png)  

Author: implentar el "and not include xxx attribute"

> Finally, if both the attributes asset and user are defined, the states of the SmartNFT define if the asset has been engaged or not with the owner or the user (`waitingForOwner`, `engagedWithOwner`, `waitingForUser` and `engagedWithUser`). The flow chart in `Figure 3` shows all the possible state changes. The states related to the owner are the same as in `Figure 2`. The difference is that, at the state `engagedWithOwner`, the token can be assigned to a user. If a user is assigned (the token being at states `engagedWithOwner`, `waitingForUser` or `engagedWithUser`), then the token changes its state to `waitingForUser`. Once the asset and the user authenticate each other, the state of the token is set to `engagedWithUser`, and the user is able to use the asset.

Author: poner los atributos como `resaltados`, pero solo cuando aparece como atributo.

 ![Figure 3 : Flow chart of the token states with user and asset defined](https://github.com/Hardblock-IMSE/EIPX-Smart-NFT/blob/main/blob/assets/eip-4519/images/Figure3.png)  
 
In order to complete the ownership transfer of a token, the new owner must carry out a mutual authentication process with the asset, which is off-chain with the asset and on-chain with the token, by using their Ethereum addresses. Similarly, a new user must carry out a mutual authentication process with the asset to complete a use transfer. SmartNFTs define how the authentication processes start and finish. These authentication processes allow deriving fresh session cryptographic keys for secure communication between assets and owners, and between assets and users. Therefore, the trustworthiness of the assets can be traced even if new owners and users manage them. 

>  

Author: Cambiar el sufijo D por A y lo que sea PKdev por A.

> ## Motivation

Reviewer: En el abstract hay que cambiar: 

"This EIP proposes a interface for non-fungible token that..." por "This EIP proposes a standard interface for non-fungible tokens that..."

"Internet of Things (IoT) device" por "Internet of Things (IoT) devices"

"and, consequently..." por "and, consequently,..."

"Moreaver" por "Moreover"

"extend ERC-721" por "extend ERC-721 NFTs"

"in addition to owner" por "in addition to owners"

Author: Ya he realizado los cambios.

![Figure 1 : Flow chart of the token states with user defined (and asset undefined)](https://github.com/Hardblock-IMSE/EIPX-Smart-NFT/blob/main/blob/assets/eip-4519/images/Figure1.png)  
  
  
In the case of defining the attribute asset but not the attribute user, two states define if the token is waiting for authentication with the owner or if the authentication has finished successfully. `Figure 2` shows these states in a flow chart. When a token is created or transferred to a new owner, then the token changes its state to `waitingForOwner`. In this state, the token is waiting for the mutual authentication between the asset and the owner. Once authentication is finished successfully, the token changes its state to `engagedWithOwner`.

![Figure 2 : Flow chart of the token states with asset defined (and user undefined)](https://github.com/Hardblock-IMSE/EIPX-Smart-NFT/blob/main/blob/assets/eip-4519/images/Figure2.png)  
 

> Finally, if both attributes the asset and user are defined, the states of the SmartNFT define if the asset has been engaged or not with the owner or the user (`waitingForOwner`, `engagedWithOwner`, `waitingForUser` and `engagedWithUser`). The flow chart in `Figure 3` shows all the possible state changes. The states related to the owner are the same as in `Figure 2`. The difference is that, at the state `engagedWithOwner`, the token can be assigned to a user. If a user is assigned, the token being at states `engagedWithOwner`, `waitingForUser` or `engagedWithUser`, then token changes its state to `waitingForUser`. Once the asset and user authenticate each other, the state of the token is set to `engagedWithUser`, and the user is able to use the asset.

Reviewer: Finally, if both the attributes asset and user are defined, the states of the SmartNFT define if the asset has been engaged or not with the owner or the user (`waitingForOwner`, `engagedWithOwner`, `waitingForUser` and `engagedWithUser`). The flow chart in `Figure 3` shows all the possible state changes. The states related to the owner are the same as in `Figure 2`. The difference is that, at the state `engagedWithOwner`, the token can be assigned to a user. If a user is assigned (the token being at states `engagedWithOwner`, `waitingForUser` or `engagedWithUser`), then the token changes its state to `waitingForUser`. Once the asset and the user authenticate each other, the state of the token is set to `engagedWithUser`, and the user is able to use the asset.

If everything is correctly done, K<sub>O</sub> and K<sub>O_D</sub> are the same since:

K<sub>O</sub>=PK<sub>DEV</sub>\*SK<sub>O_D</sub>=(SK<sub>DEV</sub>\*P)\*SK<sub>O_D</sub>= SK<sub>DEV</sub>\*(SK<sub>O_D</sub>\*P)=SK<sub>DEV</sub>\*PK<sub>O_D</sub>

Using the function `ownerEngagement`, the asset sends the K<sub>O_D</sub> obtained and if it is the same as K<sub>O</sub>, then the state of the token changes to `engagedWithOwner` and the event `OwnerEngaged` is sent. Once the asset receives the event, it changes its operation mode to `engagedWithOwner`. This process is shown in `Figure 4`. From this moment, the asset can be managed by the owner. 

>  ![Figure 4: Steps in a successful owner and asset mutual authentication process](https://github.com/Hardblock-IMSE/EIPX-Smart-NFT/blob/main/blob/assets/eip-4519/images/Figure4.png)  

Reviewer: En la Figure 4, "Geneate the pair..." por "Generate the pair..."

Reviewer: En esta figura, se recibe el State, pero no se indica cómo se utiliza.

Author: El state es lo que le permite ponerse en el modo de operación waitingForOwner.

Author: De hecho, en el diagrama original, se solicitaba información genérica, porque el dispositivo no tendría por que saber en el instante de despertarse su estado. tal vez nunca se consultó antes, se ha borrado, o no ha sido "consciente del cambio"

If everything is correctly done, K<sub>U</sub> and K<sub>U_D</sub> are the same since:

K<sub>U</sub>=PK<sub>DEV</sub>\*SK<sub>U_D</sub>=(SK<sub>DEV</sub>\*P)\*SK<sub>U_D</sub>= SK<sub>DEV</sub>\*(SK<sub>U_D</sub>\*P)=SK<sub>DEV</sub>\*PK<sub>U_D</sub>

Using the function `userEngagement`, the asset sends the K<sub>U_D</sub> obtained and if it is the same as K<sub>U</sub>, then the state of the token changes to `engagedWithUser` and the event `UserEngaged` is sent. Once the asset receives the event, it changes its operation mode to `engagedWithUser`. This process is shown in `Figure 5`. From this moment, the asset can be managed by the user. 

>  ![Figure 5: Steps in a successful user and asset mutual authentication process](https://github.com/Hardblock-IMSE/EIPX-Smart-NFT/blob/main/blob/assets/eip-4519/images/Figure5.png)  

Reviewer: Igual que en Figure 5.

>  ![Figure 5: Steps in a successful user and asset mutual authentication process](https://github.com/Hardblock-IMSE/EIPX-Smart-NFT/blob/main/blob/assets/eip-4519/images/Figure5.png)  

Author: Arreglar lo de las mayusculas de la figuras 4 y 5

Author: En vez de de Engage -> Engagemente en el pie del pagina
La flecha de user/owner al asset reques engagement
Poner como get information

En el codigo cambiar addressSA por addressAsset.

```
 
## Rationale
The demand for SmartNFTs, which allow user management and a tie to a physical asset are growing (for example, in the context of the Internet of Things). Therefore, it is essential to establish a standard capable of including all these options working together or separately. The incorporation of an Ethereum address of the user or an Ethereum address of a physical asset to the SmartNFT is optional. However, it does not make sense that the SmartNFT does not include any of them because, in that case, the SmartNFT would be an ERC-721 token. Since some functions such as `startUserEngagement` are available only if both addresses are implemented, a single interface with all the options is proposed.

> **SmartNFT**

Author: ```suggestion

**SmartNFT**
```

This EIP proposes a non-fungible token tied to a physical asset. The asset is able to generate an Ethereum address and authenticate its user and its owner. Hence, the asset can be considered as a smart asset associated with an NFT. If the asset and the token are regarded as one thing, we can talk about a SmartNFT. 

> **Authentication**

Author: ```suggestion

**Authentication**
```

This EIP proposes using the smart contract to verify the mutual authentication process between the physical asset and the owner or the user by verifying the hash of a shared key.

> **Tie Time**

Author: ```suggestion

**Tie Time**
```

This EIP proposes including the attribute timestamp (to register in Ethereum the last time that the physical asset checked the tie with its token) and the attribute timeout (to register the maximum delay time established for the physical asset to prove again the tie). These attributes avoid that a malicious owner or user could use the asset endlessly.
When the asset calls `updateTimestamp`, the smart contract must call `block.timestamp`, which provides current block timestamp as seconds since Unix epoch. For this reason, `timeout`  must be provided in seconds.

> **ERC-721-based**

Author: ```suggestion

**ERC-721-based**
```

**Authentication**
This EIP proposes using the smart contract to verify the mutual authentication process between the physical asset and the owner or the user by verifying the hash of a shared key.

**Tie Time**
This EIP proposes including the attribute timestamp (to register in Ethereum the last time that the physical asset checkeds the tie with its token) and the attribute timeout (to register the maximum delay time established for the physical asset to prove again the tie). These attributes avoid that a malicious owner or user could use the asset endlessly.
When the asset calls `updateTimestamp`, the smart contract must call `block.timestamp`, which provides current block timestamp as seconds since Unix epoch. For this reason, `timeout`  must be provided in seconds.

**ERC-721-based**
[EIP-721](./eip-721.md) is the most commonly-used standard for generic NFTs. This EIP extends ERC-721 for backwards compatibility.
  
## Backwards Compatibility
This standard is an extension of ERC-721. It is fully compatible with both of the commonly used optional extensions (`IERC721Metadata` and `IERC721Enumerable`) mentioned in the EIP-721 standard.

## Test Cases

> The test cases presented in the paper shown below are available [here] (../assets/eip-4519/PoC_SmartNFT/README.md).

Author: Has propuesto este cambio, la verdad es que no veo de donde sale. Pandapip1 comentó que es mejor no ponerlo, ya que en principio es mejor no mostrarlo.

"Proof of concept of an implementation of a SmartNFT
This proof of concept was launched in the Ethereum Kovan Testnet with the address 0x7eB5A03E7ED70ABf70fee48965D0411d37F335aC."

## Rationale

> The NFTs that demand user management and a tie to a physical asset are growing (for example, in the context of the Internet of Things). Therefore, it is essential to establish standard capable of including all these options working together or separately. The incorporation of an Ethereum address of the user or an Ethereum address of a physical asset to the NFT is optional. However, it does not make sense that the SmartNFT does not include any of the two Ethereum addresses since the SmartNFT would be an ERC-721 token. Since some functions such as `startUserEngagement` are available only if both addresses are implemented, a single interface with all the options is proposed.

Author: ```suggestion
The NFTs that demand user management and a tie to a physical asset are growing (for example, in the context of the Internet of Things). Therefore, it is essential to establish the SmartNFT standard capable of including all these options working together or separately. The incorporation of an Ethereum address of the user or an Ethereum address of a physical asset to the NFT is optional. However, it does not make sense that the SmartNFT does not include any of the two Ethereum addresses since the SmartNFT would be an ERC-721 token. Since some functions such as `startUserEngagement` are available only if both attributes are implemented, a single interface with all the options is proposed.
```

Author: En realidad no creo que sea correcto implementar las dos direcciones. Le veo más sentido a la palabra `atributo`, `opciones` o `mejoras` por ejemplo.

**SmartNFT**

> This EIP proposes a non-fungible token tied to a physical asset. The asset is able to generate an Ethereum address and authenticate its user and its owner. Hence, the asset can be considered as a smart asset associated with an NFT. If the asset and the token are regarded as one thing, we can talk about a SmartNFT. The demand for SmartNFTs, which allow user management and a tie to a physical asset are growing (for example, in the context of the Internet of Things). Therefore, it is essential to establish a standard capable of including all these options working together or separately. The incorporation of an Ethereum address of the user or an Ethereum address of a physical asset to the SmartNFT is optional. However, it does not make sense that the SmartNFT does not include any of them because, in that case, the SmartNFT would be an ERC-721 token. Since some functions such as `startUserEngagement` are available only if both addresses are implemented, a single interface with all the options is proposed.

Author: ```suggestion
This EIP proposes a non-fungible token tied to a physical asset. The asset is able to generate an Ethereum account and authenticate its user and its owner. Hence, the asset can be considered as a smart asset associated with an NFT. If the asset and the token are regarded as one thing, we can talk about a SmartNFT. The demand for SmartNFTs, which allow user management and a tie to a physical asset are growing (for example, in the context of the Internet of Things). Therefore, it is essential to establish a standard capable of including all these options working together or separately. The incorporation of an Ethereum address of the user or an Ethereum address of a physical asset to the SmartNFT is optional. However, it does not make sense that the SmartNFT does not include any of them because, in that case, the SmartNFT would be an ERC-721 token. Since some functions such as `startUserEngagement` are available only if both addresses are implemented, a single interface with all the options is proposed.
```

Author: Realmente que en este caso, es mas correcto decir que son capaces de crear cuentas de Ethereum, no solo la address.

Author: "it is essential to establish a standard capable of including all these options working together or separately" esta frase se repite arriba, No se hasta que punto queda raro este "Copy-Paste"

Author: Quitar lo que pone arriba.

**Authentication**
This EIP proposes using the smart contract to verify the mutual authentication process between the physical asset and the owner or the user by verifying the hash of a shared key.

**Tie Time**
This EIP proposes including the attribute timestamp (to register in Ethereum the last time that the physical asset checkeds the tie with its token) and the attribute timeout (to register the maximum delay time established for the physical asset to prove again the tie). These attributes avoid that a malicious owner or user could use the asset endlessly.
When the asset calls `updateTimestamp`, the smart contract must call `block.timestamp`, which provides current block timestamp as seconds since Unix epoch. For this reason, `timeout`  must be provided in seconds.

**ERC-721-based**
[EIP-721](./eip-721.md) is the most commonly-used standard for generic NFTs. This EIP extends ERC-721 for backwards compatibility.
  
## Backwards Compatibility

> This standard is an extension of ERC-721. It is fully compatible with both of the commonly used optional extensions (`IERC721Metadata` and `IERC721Enumerable`) mentioned in the EIP-721 standard.

Author: ```suggestion
This interface is an extension of ERC-721. It is fully compatible with both of the commonly used optional extensions (`IERC721Metadata` and `IERC721Enumerable`) mentioned in the EIP-721 interface.
```

## Rationale

> The NFTs that demand user management and a tie to a physical asset are growing (for example, in the context of the Internet of Things). Therefore, it is essential to establish standard capable of including all these options working together or separately. The incorporation of an Ethereum address of the user or an Ethereum address of a physical asset to the NFT is optional. However, it does not make sense that the SmartNFT does not include any of the two Ethereum addresses since the SmartNFT would be an ERC-721 token. Since some functions such as `startUserEngagement` are available only if both addresses are implemented, a single interface with all the options is proposed.

Reviewer: Cambiar "it is essential to establish standard..." por "it is essential to establish the SmartNFT standard..."

Author: cambiado

**SmartNFT**

> This EIP proposes a non-fungible token tied to a physical asset. The asset is able to generate an Ethereum address and authenticate its user and its owner. Hence, the asset can be considered as a smart asset associated with an NFT. If the asset and the token are regarded as one thing, we can talk about a SmartNFT. The demand for SmartNFTs, which allow user management and a tie to a physical asset are growing (for example, in the context of the Internet of Things). Therefore, it is essential to establish a standard capable of including all these options working together or separately. The incorporation of an Ethereum address of the user or an Ethereum address of a physical asset to the SmartNFT is optional. However, it does not make sense that the SmartNFT does not include any of them because, in that case, the SmartNFT would be an ERC-721 token. Since some functions such as `startUserEngagement` are available only if both addresses are implemented, a single interface with all the options is proposed.

Author: poner lo copiado arriba y quitar lo de arriba. Poner "the" standard.

**Authentication**
This EIP proposes using the smart contract to verify the mutual authentication process between the physical asset and the owner or the user by verifying the hash of a shared key.

**Tie Time**

> This EIP proposes including the attribute timestamp (to register in Ethereum the last time that the physical asset checkeds the tie with its token) and the attribute timeout (to register the maximum delay time established for the physical asset to prove again the tie). These attributes avoid that a malicious owner or user could use the asset endlessly.

Reviewer: Cambiar "checkeds" por "checked".

> This EIP proposes including the attribute timestamp (to register in Ethereum the last time that the physical asset checkeds the tie with its token) and the attribute timeout (to register the maximum delay time established for the physical asset to prove again the tie). These attributes avoid that a malicious owner or user could use the asset endlessly.

Author: ```suggestion
This EIP proposes including the attribute timestamp (to register in Ethereum the last time that the physical asset checked the tie with its token) and the attribute timeout (to register the maximum delay time established for the physical asset to prove again the tie). These attributes avoid that a malicious owner or user could use the asset endlessly.
```
